---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: UI Framework 3000
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-10-10
labels:
  - Semantic UI
  - UI Frameworks
  - UI development
---

The UI Framework is a framework of a UI that is developers use when developing a user interface for a website or app etc… The UI framework is like a toolkit that developers use to make the front end coding easier by providing all these shortcuts and references to framework items and structures which can be referenced in html. Which then makes the front end development of software more efficient and aesthetically pleasing to the user. The reasoning behind why many developers use UI frameworks over coding every aspect of the UI in html and css themselves is that it saves development time and are frameworks that are already have a modern and clean looking UI frameworks that the developer can tweak and edit to their liking instead of writing it all from the ground up.  UI frameworks are an overall quality of life improvement to the developers experience ,but learning the framework and how to properly use it can be a challenging task too. Learning a framework can be challenging because there are libraries upon libraries of classes that do specific things in the UI and it can take some time to get used to the references and learn their functionality and how they interact with each other. I personally have experienced that using and learning a UI framework is not instantaneous but takes time and has a learning curve. Recently I have begun utilizing the Semantic UI framework and have begun to learn more and more how beneficial the framework is in web development because of its numerous icons, menus, and dropboxes to use for your webpage.The UI semantic exercises and workouts of the day have demonstrated to me how fast a front end website UI can be developed if you are aided with a UI framework as a tool. But as useful as it is I find myself still confused on exactly what types of menus I can use and the proper keywords and classes to reference inside of the framework to get my ideal UI product for my website. Other personal problems I found with Semantic UI is that my own hand typed css and html does not mix well with the framework classes at times being incompatible because the UI framework classes do not behave the same way classes I personally write do. But I attribute this is all just growing pains of using the framework and I hope to get to the point where my knowledge of the UI framework increases as well as the speed and quality of UI in my websites. Semantic UI is my first UI Framework I have used of many to come and it has me curious how other UI frameworks function and how to know what framework to use for your front end development of a website.
