---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Software Engineering and Great Expectations
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-09-07
labels:
  - Future
  - Expectations
  - Software Engineering
---

Software engineering has been an interest of mine throughout my college path but I never really had the opportunity to learn and gain experience in the field until now. Being able to create software as a tool for people to use and better their lives was always an enticing pull that had me interested in the field since I first began my computer science journey. Compared to cyber security or networking the field of software engineering seemed to have a more creative and social aspect to the skill, where you can create software how you want. With  knowledge and understanding of software engineering you can pretty much do anything, the skys the limit with your software and what it does.

 I still have a lot to learn about software engineering but in the future would like to have a better grasp of the field and understanding of what it’s all about. So I can make an educated decision if it’s something I want to focus on in my career. My future goal on this journey with software engineering is to have a handful of software engineering projects completed and working under my belt before I graduate.These projects will be a good representation of my abilities as a computer scientist. I hope to gain the skills from these experiences to improve  my resume for future employers and job opportunities. 

One of my goals is to gain experience in group software development since up until now I have only done solo work on my projects. I haven't had the experience of coding and developing software with a team on a large project yet and hopefully working with a team now will prepare me for future group work and projects that I’ll have to do with coworkers at a future job. With the end goal of becoming a cohesive and effective part of a software development team. My hopes for my future with software engineering is to gain the experience necessary to develop professional software that can be utilized to solve real life problems.
